# Global-Terrorism-Analysis
Global Terrorism Analysis
The GTD is an open-source database, which provides information on domestic and international terrorist attacks around the world since 1970 through 2017 and now includes more than 180,000 events. For each event, a wide range of information is available, including the date and location of the incident, the weapons used, nature of the target, the number of casualties, and – when identifiable – the group or individual responsible. The data is maintained by researchers at the National Consortium for the Study of Terrorism and Responses to Terrorism (START), headquartered at the University of Maryland. The project aims to gain insights about terror attacks collectively in different regions through time, find out the regions that are hit the most and check to see how terrorism in itself is diverse with its targets and means. Due to the large quantity of the data and its diversity, the analysis and visualizations are performed only after doing preliminary processes including Handling Null Values, Finding Correlations and summarizing the data’s central tendency, dispersion and shape of data distribution in order to get rudimentary insights. For Exploratory Data Analysis, we are viewing the data through 4 lenses: Terrorist Organization, Global & Regional trends of Attack, Type of Attack and Target Type. The main criteria used to measure the magnitude of the attack is the number of fatalities. The project made use of the Correlation Heatmaps initially as a guide to explore relations between Attack Types and Weapon Types. The project made use of different plots including line plots, bar plots, pie plots, joint plots, strip plot and scatter plots to visualize the data. As more findings were presented, more questions arose. This never-ending loop helped arrive to the following conclusions: • The Civil War between Iraq and Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) has claimed 1570 fatalities, the largest taken in any terror attack. • The top 20% of the Terrorist Organisations have contributed to almost 99% of the crimes. This clearly shows the unequal relationship between actions and consequences verifying Pareto's Principle. • The most notorious terrorist organisations are Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL), Taliban, Boko Haram and Shining Path(SL). These organisations alone have contributed to more than one third of the total fatalities and almost 50% of the total attacks. • Global Terrorism started increasing to an all-time high from 2011. This peaked in the year 2014 and started dipping ever since. The regions: South Asia and Middle East & North Africa, play a substantial role in Global Terrorism. • The top 3 most commonly perpetrated types of attack are Bombing/Explosion, Armed Assault and Assassination whose common victims are Private Citizens/Property, Government Officials and Journalists respectively. The frequency of the top 3 attacks increase by two-folds as we move up the ladder. • Armed Assault is a dominant type of attack in Central America & Caribbean and Bombings/Explosion is a dominant type of attack in Middle East & North Africa. • Most Affected Target types are Private Citizens & Property, Military and Police. • Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) and Taliban are active from the mid 2010's and Boko Haram are active from 2010. Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) are active from late 1980's. Their attacks peaked in mid 1990's and reduced in 2000's. The Irish Republican Army (IRA) has made their attacks constantly from 1970's to 1980's.
